readme.md, before:

[![textfitting example](example.gif)](https://textfit.page.bne.sh/)

# textfit

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/textfit-web-component.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/textfit-web-component)

This package only needs to be imported once as web components extend the HTML object. You can use this just like a `div` or `h1` tag after you import the module

## usage examples

```html
<script type="module">import "./node_modules/textfit-web-component/textfit.js"</script>
<!-- or -->
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/textfit-web-component@1.0/textfit.js"></script>

<body>
    <div>
        <text-fit max-lines="1">
            hello world
        </text-fit>
    </div>
</body>
```

you can also use this in a framework like react as long as it's imported before it's used since it's just adding a new html tag to the dom. This can be in the html file, top level index.js entry point or even in the same file.

```jsx
import 'textfit-web-component'

const ReactComponent = () => {
    return (
        <div>
            <text-fit max-lines="1">
                hello react world
            </text-fit>
        </div>
    )
}
```

## Props

| Props    | Description | Default value |
|----------|-----|-----|
| max-lines | The maximum number of lines that should be allowed to be rendered. The font size will reduce until it hits the minimum font size. | undefined |
| max-height | The maximum that the element should be allowed to be before the font size gets reduced. The possible values are `parent`, `outerbox`, `innerbox`, `css`, `self`, or a integer in pixels. The font size will reduce until it fits or the min font size is hit | undefined |
| max-font-size | The maximum allowed font size that the resizing can set to | 100 |
| min-font-size | The minimum allowed font size that the resizing can set to | 20 |
| font-unit | The unit that the font size should be set to. This can be any valid css unit | % |
| classname | The class name that should be applied to the element | undefined |
| log-overflow-error | If the text is too large to fit in the element then it will log an error message for debugging | false |
| debounce-time | The amount of time in milliseconds that the resize event should be debounced by | 0 |
| dont-grow-in-height | Prevent the element from getting larger than its initial size. This can create problems as if you resize the initial size will become the current size meaning it'll never grow in size | false |
| disable-dynamic-font-size | Disable the dynamic font size and only use this for line counting | false |

## Advanced examples 🫶

if you want a element to be based of the hight of something else then you can use the max-height props. There is a range of different max height limiters that have been provided in order to allow their system to work in all use cases.

```html
`parent` It sets the max height based on if this element is larger than its direct parent. 
<div style="height: 20px;">
    <text-fit max-height="parent">
        max height based on parent
    </text-fit>
</div>
```

`Outerbox` lets you check if this element is larger than its parent using a bounding box.

```html
<div style="height: 30px;">
    <text-fit max-height="outerbox">
        max height based on parent's bounding box
    </text-fit>
</div>
```

`innerbox` lets you check if any child element is larger than the textfit element. This is useful in situations where you have elements other than text also inside the component.

```html
<text-fit max-height="innerbox">
    <i class='icon'/>
    max height based on parent's bounding box
</text-fit>
```

`self` Checks if the element's scroll height is larger than its height. This is a classic overflow where scroll bars would appear.

```html
<text-fit max-height="self">
    max height based on bounding box of the element inside 
</text-fit>
```

`css` This is the default value. It will use the css height value that has been set on the element. This is useful if you want to set a max height in css and then use that value.

```html
<style>
    .textbox {
        max-height: 200px;
    }
</style>
<text-fit max-height="css" classname="textbox">
    max height based on css max-height value
</text-fit>
```

You can also pass in a integer in order to set a manual max height

```html
<div style="height: 200px;">
    <text-fit max-height="300">
        max height is 300px 
    </text-fit>
</div>
```

you can use both max-height and max-lines together. This will allow you to set a max height and then have the text fit into that max height by reducing the font size. This is useful if you want to have a title that is a maximum of 3 lines but also stays withing the bounds of the parent element.

```html
<h2 style="background: red; height: 50vh; ">
  <text-fit max-lines="3" max-font-size="2000" max-height='outerbox' >
  hey there i am samuel
  </text-fit>
</h2>
```

if you just want to use textfit for line counting you can disable the font resizing with the `disable-dynamic-font-size` prop

```html
<text-fit disable-dynamic-font-size id="target">
    hello
</text-fit>

<script>
    document.querySelector('#id').lineCount; // 1
</script>
```

---
Thanks for reading. Please let me know if you find this useful or if you need any changes done ❤️

i also made a URL shorter that just uses emojis [https://bne.sh/🇨🇻🥩](https://bne.sh/🇨🇻🥩)

Commit message:

add support for overflow detection based off the screen as a % or just that the box remains on the screen

readme.md, after:

[![textfitting example](example.gif)](https://textfit.page.bne.sh/)

# textfit

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/textfit-web-component.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/textfit-web-component)

The worlds only library for text fitting that can limit by number of lines as well as by container with support for dynamic font size and dynamic line counting.
This package uses an overly complicated algorithm to determine the font size and line count of the text but it worked for any font and framework. Most of the issues you will run into are related to a parent block type elements not allowing the text to grow in size after it has shrunk the font size, You can avoid this by making the parent element have a width of 100%. There also will be issues with putting this around elements that use rem or px units for font sizing as they set the font size based on the root font size. You can fix this by putting textfit inside of the element that sets the font size or using em units.
There are some issues with webpack not understanding web components but you can ignore the warnings as this JS logic exists outside of react/angular/vue etc. This component just extends the HTML object to add a new tag that can be used just like a `div` or `h1` tag.

## usage examples

```html
<script type="module">import "./node_modules/textfit-web-component/textfit.js"</script>
<!-- or -->
<script type="module" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/textfit-web-component@1.0/textfit.js"></script>

<body>
    <div>
        <text-fit max-lines="1">
            hello world
        </text-fit>
    </div>
</body>
```

you can also use this in a framework like react as long as it's imported before it's used since it's just adding a new html tag to the dom. This can be in the html file, top level index.js entry point or even in the same file.

```jsx
import 'textfit-web-component'

const ReactComponent = () => {
    return (
        <div>
            <text-fit max-lines="1">
                hello react world
            </text-fit>
        </div>
    )
}
```

## Props

| Props    | Description | Default value |
|----------|-----|-----|
| max-lines | The maximum number of lines that should be allowed to be rendered. The font size will reduce until it hits the minimum font size. | undefined |
| max-height | The maximum that the element should be allowed to be before the font size gets reduced. The possible values are `parent`, `outerbox`, `innerbox`, `css`, `self`, or a integer in pixels or % of viewport. The font size will reduce until it fits or the min font size is hit | undefined |
| max-font-size | The maximum allowed font size that the resizing can set to | 100 |
| min-font-size | The minimum allowed font size that the resizing can set to | 20 |
| font-unit | The unit that the font size should be set to. This can be any valid css unit | % |
| classname | The class name that should be applied to the element | undefined |
| log-overflow-error | If the text is too large to fit in the element then it will log an error message for debugging | false |
| debounce-time | The amount of time in milliseconds that the resize event should be debounced by | 0 |
| dont-grow-in-height | Prevent the element from getting larger than its initial size. This can create problems as if you resize the initial size will become the current size meaning it'll never grow in size | false |
| disable-dynamic-font-size | Disable the dynamic font size and only use this for line counting | false |
| debug-overflow-error | If the text is too large it will show a red box over the element to help visualize when overflow is happening | false |

## Advanced examples 🫶

if you want a element to be based of the hight of something else then you can use the max-height props. There is a range of different max height limiters that have been provided in order to allow their system to work in all use cases.

```html
`parent` It sets the max height based on if this element is larger than its direct parent. 
<div style="height: 20px;">
    <text-fit max-height="parent">
        max height based on parent
    </text-fit>
</div>
```

`outerbox` lets you check if this element is larger than its parent using a bounding box.

```html
<div style="height: 30px;">
    <text-fit max-height="outerbox">
        max height based on parent's bounding box
    </text-fit>
</div>
```

`innerbox` lets you check if any child element is larger than the textfit element. This is useful in situations where you have elements other than text also inside the component.

```html
<text-fit max-height="innerbox">
    <i class='icon'/>
    max height based on parent's bounding box
</text-fit>
```

`self` Checks if the element's scroll height is larger than its height. This is a classic overflow where scroll bars would appear.

```html
<text-fit max-height="self">
    max height based on bounding box of the element inside 
</text-fit>
```

`css` This is the default value. It will use the css height value that has been set on the element. This is useful if you want to set a max height in css and then use that value.

```html
<style>
    .textbox {
        max-height: 200px;
    }
</style>
<text-fit max-height="css" classname="textbox">
    max height based on css max-height value
</text-fit>
```

`%` is a special value that will set the max height to be a % of the viewport height. this is most useful for doing header text

```html
<text-fit max-height="30%" max-font-size="2000">
    text that will be at most 30% of the viewport height or 2000% larger than initial font size
</text-fit>
```

You can also pass in a integer in order to set a manual max height

```html
<div style="height: 200px;">
    <text-fit max-height="300">
        max height is 300px 
    </text-fit>
</div>
```

you can use both max-height and max-lines together. This will allow you to set a max height and then have the text fit into that max height by reducing the font size. This is useful if you want to have a title that is a maximum of 3 lines but also stays withing the bounds of the parent element.

```html
  <text-fit max-lines="3" max-font-size="2000" max-height="30%" >
   text that will be at most 3 lines and 30% of the viewport height or 2000% larger than initial font size
  </text-fit>
```

if you just want to use textfit for line counting you can disable the font resizing with the `disable-dynamic-font-size` prop

```html
<text-fit disable-dynamic-font-size id="target">
    hello world
</text-fit>

<script>
    document.querySelector('#id').lineCount; // 1
</script>
```

---
Thanks for reading. Please let me know if you find this useful or if you need any changes done ❤️

i also made a URL shorter that just uses emojis [https://bne.sh/🇨🇻🥩](https://bne.sh/🇨🇻🥩)
